So we talked a lot about components and
different ways for,
either rendering things, refactoring
things and keeping things organized.
But the biggest problem we all have run
into when it comes to applications at
scale is when we want to actually share
functionality across the different
components.
And so the first technique that most
people encounter in view two and
this still exists in view three.
Is mixins, and so
as a quick cover of what mixins are,
basically we define our object API.
In this case, you see that the constant
my mixin has a data store that it
has a reactive property of
foo with the value of bar.
And then what happens is you declare it
inside of the component you want to use.
And so in this case we have mixins and
basically,
we have that erasing tasks where
we're pointing it to myMixin.
What this does is it'll basically,
like think of it as unpackaged,
the mixin inside of your script block,
so that you can then get access to it.
So that component on the bottom with the
export default that will suddenly have,
like a reactive data property called foo,
that has the value bar.
And so,
some people even gone even further,
where you can even make mixins basically
like a factory generator while you can see
here that it's a function that takes
in an actual variable like a parameter.
And then using that it can then
generate like a data source,
according to where it starts.
So in this case we want to actually
generate like where the current count
starts from, because when we're mixing
this in into different components we
want to start at a different places.
So this is one way that it
has been done in the past.
However, when it comes to mixins, there
have been basically mixed reviews and
overall negative when it comes to sharing
functionality between components.
And the reason for
this is you look back at how this works,
there's nothing really
stopping us from mixing in
multiple mixins to actually
share multiple values.
In this case we know that
myMixin has current count.
But if we're looking at
the component on the bottom,
there's nothing stopping us from
importing another mixin that might
accidentally have the same
reactive property.
And so, what you ultimately get is,
you get get basically,
possible property name clashes.
And then when you actually see
this inside of your terminal and
you're getting some bug, it's gonna be
extremely hard to debug because now you
basically don't know where
things are coming from.
And so this is the opposite of the
direction we want to move when it comes to
building apps at scale,
because Just like CSS modules,
the closer we can get to pinpointing
exactly where something's coming from.
And then figuring out the root cause
of the problem is super critical for
basically allowing us to flow forward and
make progress.
And so, another con as well is that we're
currently only starting functionality, but
In the event that people
are doing like template fragments,
this is another con of it,
although again, less of a use case.
And so as I mentioned before,
we can track where things are coming from.
And so as a result,
this makes it basically like, more or
less inadvisable to use mixins.
But of course, then you're thinking
like so I should never use mixins right.
That's like the easy rule of thumb.
And so like everything else in
this workshop, the answer is no.
Anytime anything's like you
hear something that's absolute,
I would say 99% of the time,
there is always an exception.
And so while mixins, so one of the pros,
as we saw earlier is this
pretty easy to use and define.
But what a lot of people miss out on the
mixins is it's actually really good for
refactoring a component.
It's a very useful technique.
So you can imagine if you have a really
complex component with a large options
API, like footprint and you're trying
to figure out how to break it up.
It's tempting sometimes to just
try to rewrite everything, but
we know that that that is tricky and
all the times it takes just one
small misstep and all of a sudden,
like the whole thing's broken, but
by using mixins for a single component.
Right, which sounds weird because
you're like, is it mixed,
supposed to be shared across components?
But if you're mixins for single
components, it's a great way of kind of.
Think of it like reorganizing how
the options API should look inside of
the component.
And that might give you a better
indication of what might actually be
reusable functionality that can be
broken out either into say like,
like a utility function or a or whatnot.
And we'll talk about
the composition API shortly.
But this is a great way for refactoring
options API components that have really,
really large footprint so keep that
in mind as the technique for mixins.